Terms of Use :: xeno-canto
xeno-canto
Sharing wildlife sounds from around the world
Advanced Search
Tips
About
About xeno-canto
Collection Details
API
Meet the Members
Frequently Asked Questions
Terms of Use
Credits & Colofon
Explore
By Region
By Taxonomy
Recent Recordings
Random Recordings
Upload Sounds
Forum
Mysteries
Articles
Log in / Register
Note
: Many features of this site will not work without javascript
Terms of Use
Whether you would like to share your own recordings or just browse the site, please take a minute to read our terms of use.
Sounds are published on xeno-canto under one of several
Creative Commons
            licenses
. Do read them carefully. And act according to their terms.
Each time a recording is shown on a page of xeno-canto at least the
            following details will also be mentioned: recordist name, license, and
            xeno-canto catalogue number.
In principle recordists can take their recordings off line at any time using the
            xeno-canto website. ( Note that although it is possible to delete your recordings from 
            the collection, we
strongly
discourage it. Please only delete a recording if you come to the conclusion that 
            it is of such poor quality as to make it essentially useless, or if there are copyright issues. It is important that 
            the collection is stable so that people can reference recordings without them disappearing.
            XC may restore a deleted recording to the collection under the terms of its 
            original license if we feel that it is valuable to keep it. The
Creative Commons licenses
under which 
            the recordings are shared permit this.)
Recordists are responsible for the accuracy of identification of their
            recordings. The burden of proof for the ID rests with the recordist.
By uploading a recording to xeno-canto, the recordist grants
            xeno-canto.org the right to create visualizations of their recordings
            (including sonograms) for display on the website, regardless of their choice
            of license.
Sounds can be embedded on other websites using a xeno-canto widget. This is allowed by the CC licenses. 
            When sounds are embedded by xeno-canto, recordist name, license and XC-catalogue number will be mentioned.
Creative Commons licenses
The Creative Commons licenses allow users to download and distribute
            recordings under certain conditions specified by the license. Each
            recordist can choose which license to use. The licenses 
            fall into a couple of basic categories:
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs
(BY-NC-ND): This is the most
            restrictive of our licenses.  Users are free to download and distribute these
            recordings as long as they attribute the recordist, but they are not free to
            use them commercially or alter them in any way.  As an example of a valid
            use under this license, a user is free download a recording from xeno-canto
            and offer it for download from her own website provided that the recordist
            is properly credited.
            Here is the
full legal code
.
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
(BY-NC-SA): This license is
            similar to the previous license, but it also allows users to alter (edit,
            crop, filter, combine, etc) the recordings and redistribute those derivative
            works, as long as those derivative works are licensed under the same
            license. As an example of a valid use under this license, a user is free to
            download an appropriately-licensed recording from xeno-canto, modify it
            and/or create a derivative work from it (e.g. edit the recording for focus,
            use it as a background track for a video, etc), and offer them for download
            from his website provided that a) the recordist is properly credited,
            b) the modified recording or derivative work is offered to others under the
            same license, and c) the use is not commercial.
            Here is the
full legal code
.
Attribution-ShareAlike
(BY-SA): Again, this license is similar
            to the previous license, but it also allows anyone to use the recording
            commercially. It's important to note however that
any commercial work
            based on this recording must also be released under the same license, which
            grants other users the freedom to modify and redistribute it
.
            As an example of a valid use under this license, a user may download
            a collection of recordings from xeno-canto, edit them for focus, and sell it
            as a CD, provided that the recordists are properly credited and the derived
            works are offered to others under the same terms as the original recordings.
            This means that that although the user is free to sell this CD commercially,
            anyone who buys a copy of the CD is granted the right to redistribute those
            recordings freely as she wishes. 
            Here is the
full legal code
.
The above descriptions are necessarily simplified summaries, for the details that matter do read the full legal codes.
Acknowledgements & citations
Xeno-canto thinks that if at any stage of a project (small or large, perhaps a blog, a presentation at school or a scientific paper) the efforts
            of the XC community were useful, XC should be acknowledged. 
            Of course the attribution clause in the CC licenses should always be respected. 
            Also if sounds are treated as data for a paper, they should be properly cited, just like articles, books and other information sources would be. 
            If the sounds are not quite what you wanted, but XC put you in touch with the recordist that turned out to have a bunch of useful recordings, 
            or provided uncompressed versions, or extra examples: we think you should acknowledge us.
            So..
Honour the attibution clause in the CC licenses: always mention the recordist if you refer to a recording.
At least mention the url www.xeno-canto.org in your acknowledgements.
Cite sounds as you would cite any other data source. Mention the recordist, the XC-number and the stable url for the recording.
Fair and proper citation will provide us the opportunity to show the impact of the data on XC, of the XC infrastructure and of the effort of the XC community to everyone interested.
Server Resources
xeno-canto runs a server with specifications appropriate for rather
            intensive use by many users at the same time. Unfortunately the server
            cannot usually accomodate indiscriminate automated requests such as mass
            downloads of pages or files. Such use of the site is (actively) discouraged
            especially if it deteriorates the user experience or if it interferes with
            site maintenance. Requests for the transfer of large amounts of data, for
            any use allowed by the license, are of course welcome at the contact address
            below.
Funding
As explained
here
, xeno-canto has a rather
            ambitious program. If you upload recordings we assume that you subscribe to
            those aims, as well as with actions that XC will take to further those aims.
            Basically that boils down to applying for funding.  We'd like to stress that
            although money is involved in such applications, it is not about selling
            your recordings, or about making a profit, it is about keeping the site
            up-and-running, up-to-date and in-flux. To make sure that that is indeed
            the case the Xeno-canto foundation (which is the legal body set up to run
            the website) is in the process of establishing a board that includes
            stakeholders as well as professionals that will checking the accounts, if
            there are any.
Xeno-canto.org is powered by the Xeno-canto Foundation and Naturalis Biodiversity Center
Website © 2005-2026
Xeno-canto Foundation
Recordings © the recordist. See recording details for license information.
Sonogram images ©
Xeno-canto Foundation
. Sonogram images share the same license terms as the recording they depict.
Terms of use
Credits
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Find us on YouTube
Afrikaans
*
Català
*
Česky
*
Dansk
Deutsch
English
Español
Eesti
*
Suomi
*
Français
Magyar
*
Bahasa Indonesia
*
Íslenska
*
Italiano
*
日本語
*
Lietuvių
*
Latviešu
*
Nederlands
Norsk
Polski
Português
Português do Brasil
Русский
Davvisámegiella
*
Slovenčina
*
Slovenščina
*
Svenska
ภาษาไทย
*
Українська
*
简体中文
*
繁體中文
* Only bird names are translated